Now I want to talk about something that I've been meaning to talk about, but we haven't had a chance
yet, and that is using track mats and blending modes.
So if we select our clip and we go to our parameters, we have our opacity here and we have our blending
mode and the blending mode.
How do you explain this?
So you basically tell the computer, the almighty editing software, how to interpret your footage.
And the best way to see this is if I go and I drag in a logo, because this is going to make it a lot
easier to kind of understand how the track that is actually working.
So actually, what I want to do here with this is logo is a PG.
So there's no background.
But I actually for this.
Lesson, I wanted to have a background, so I'm going to go create a black video.
Now we have our logo with the black background, no black background and together.
So I'm going to nest these two so that they're one clip.
And if I go to this blending mode and let's see, I go to screen what this is going to do.
Is this going to tell you're almighty editing software to only display the lighter parts of the image
and screen and lighten or both?
Very similar in the way that they do the blending mode.
Now, if I were to do darken, it does the opposite.
It removes the white part of the image and it allows for that part of the image to be transparent.
So you can kind of see is kind of cool.
You can get some really cool looks going with that.
Now, multiply is very similar to darken, just the way screen is very similar to Leighton.
Now the screen lighting and darken multiply.
These are going to be your two main ones.
The other ones, they garner, they kind of get a little funky.
The color burn one, I mean, it's like when are you going to use that?
It looks like a 70s, 80s music video, linear burn.
It's kind of, I guess, similar to Darken.
All of those are really similar, but just the darken one is really the best one, in my opinion.
Then we have the color dodge.
This one's a little hard to tell with this example, but we'll use a more complex example.
But I just want to show the basics first.
So then there's the overlay.
And you can see instead of darken, where it's taking away the white part of the frame or screen, where
it's taking away the dark part of the frame.
Darken is almost ermin overlay.
Excuse me.
Is overlaying and keeping the dark part of the frame.
But what that does is affects the image below it.
So there's slightly different ones.
Soft light is doing that similar one as overlay, but it's affecting the dark parts a little bit less
below the image.
So you can kind of mess around with these other ones.
But like I said, they kind of do funky, weird things.
I haven't ever in a decade of editing found a use for any of these ones down here.
Sometimes overlay is nice.
I used it in a recent music video.
That creates a little bit of a softness to your logo.
But that's kind of another thing.
What I want to do now that you understand the basics.
Now, what I want to do is remove this logo example, and I want to use this blending mode for our actual
clips.
And one cool way to do that that I found over the years is to use the screen blending mode.
Now, just by itself, I just switch the bloody mode.
But you can see it didn't change anything.
The reason is because there's nothing below it.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to drag this clip, the intro and outro with this clip just a few
frames before the shot in front of it and a little bit after the shot behind it.
So what that ends up doing is this.
It adds just a little bit of a flash between the frames.
Now I can see by my eye this second one is held for too long.
So I'm going to shorten it and let's look at it again.
So it adds.
So it's adding a little bit of a punchy and a flashiness, there's kind of a cool overlay going on here.
Just for a split second.
And the viewer is not going to really be able to put their finger on what's going on, but it's just
going to feel like a cool moment.
So let's move forward in our edit.
And let's see where else could use a similar aesthetic.
So, yeah, let's use this moment where we created this cut earlier.
Let's move this clip up.
Let's extend the intro of the clip and the outro of the clip, just a few frames.
Let's go to the blending mode and its screen.
Now, I mentioned there's just a slight difference between screen and light.
And if we go to light and instead it's going to make it less apparent, I guess I want to say it's going
to overlay less so you can see screen.
You can really see this secondary shot.
When you do lighton, you see more of the original shot.
So I honestly prefer the look of the screen because it adds it brings up the exposure.
And just for when you bring up the exposure just for a few frames, that's kind of what's creating that
poppy snapping.
So let's check it out.
Cool.
So without.
And with.
And like I mentioned, there's also the Darkin and multiply.
So if we put it to Darkin, it's going to retain the dark parts of the frame rather than the opposite
of retaining the light parts of the frame so we can start to get some kind of cool, glitchy moments.
Right.
I really like this one, this one's pretty cool, this second one I'm not a huge fan of.
So let's say we really liked the dark.
And look, you know, we can extend this and then let's say we wanted to we were really happy with that
cool kind of vibe.
But for this one, we wanted that flashy look.
We can extend this and make a cut and put this back to screen so that we're getting because this looks
a lot more aesthetically cool as an overlay.
So let's see them both combined.
Yes, OK, cool.
So we get that cool clon kind of effect and then we get this cool kind of extra flash in between frames.
Let's find one more area in the video that can use this technique.
OK, so I love this moment.
Let's go ahead and extend this out and let's try the screen blending mode.
OK, cool.
So there's just a little extra boom right there and then it cuts and then boom right there and then
it goes.
So you can see the layer behind it.
Right.
And then here you can see the layer behind it as well.
So you can get really creative, you can do some really cool things.
You can really use this to spice up the edit.
And I'm really happy that I finally found a moment in this course to talk about the blending modes,
because it's something I use in the refining process for a project like this to really be a ninja and
get in there and create those cool moments.